>> Kyle: So let's talk about the solution
to this exercise 8 and then wrap up.
As you can see in the read me,
gave you some precise instructions.
We wanna remove the setup UI function and
instead,
using object.create define a UI
object that delegates to helpers.
So if we were before calling setup UI and
making a public API,
now what we want to do
is make a UI object.
So on line 39m I'm making a UI object
which delegates two helpers as you see
there on line 39, we delegate two helpers
and we copy this stuff into that object so
this literally lets me use
the literal syntax to copy it in.
And I've got my project template and
work entry template
as properties on that object as
supposed to hidden internal variables.
And then I just start listing out
my functions like my init method,
my submitNewWorkEntry method.
All same functions I didn't have to
change much about how those worked,
I just changed what they are being added
to, so another being added to this object.
The readme also tells us to do
the same kind of change to [COUGH]
make the application object,
instead of setupApp,
we wanna make the application object.
So if I scroll here, we had setupApp,
which took in the UI and
it made this instance of a public API.
Let's make an application
object to do the same.
So I'm still gonna have the setupApp
function but I need an application
object that delegates to that
UI object that we created above.
An application object has
the following methods in
it.
>> Kyle: All that code should be
basically the same.
We still have setup project, and
we have a project object now,
instead of adding stuff to some
project up prototype, or whatever,
we have an OLOO style object for
projects and those methods.
And my setupProject creates an instance,
if you will, that links to project.
It adds the properties to it that it
needs and it gives us this instance bag.
So it's kind of serving the purpose
of a constructor function here.
So there's our four separate objects.
We have the helpers object,
we have the UI object,
we have the application object,
and we have the project object.
Those are the four objects.
They're all gonna be in
a prototype chain together.
So what are some of
the differences in code?
Do we have to change much about
the code to make that work?
Well, there's one key difference in
terms of how we deal with stuff.
You'll notice that in the previous
example, when we instantiated,
or when we called our things,
we made a UI object and called UI.init.
That's the way the original exercise was,
and then made an app where we pass it in.
In the fixed version,
that looks a little bit different.
In the fixed version, we've already got
the UI object so we don't need to make it.
And we call App.init.
Now if you look at the code,
there is no App.init.
Init is in UI,
which is higher up the delegation chain.
But why do we call App.init?
Well, the reason why is
that when call App.init,
that's gonna delegate to application.
Remember, app is that object which
is then delegating to application.
Application doesn't have an init,
so application delegates to UI,
and UI does have an init.
But when we call than init function,
what's this keyword going to be?
Still gonna be App.
So all of these properties,
instead of being added to the UI object,
they're all gonna be added
to the application object.
And you'll notice what I did right
here when I set up the click handler.
I said call submitnNewWorkEntry but
make sure we call it in the same context.
So when submitNewWorkEntry is called,
what is this keyword gonna be?
Still gonna be App, right?
So we carry forward that app context
throughout all of these calls.
The methods are all on their
different individual objects, but
it's the call site time when
all of them virtually compose.
So just as an example,
when I call this stop validate entry,
does app have a validate entry?
No, what about application?
Does it have a validate entry?
No, what about UI,
does it have a validate entry?
No, but where does UI delegate?
Helpers.
And helpers does have
a validate work entry.
And when we call
this.minWorkDescriptionLength,
where are we gonna be getting that?
We're gonna be getting those properties
directly from our app object,
okay?
>> Kyle: So the point is that we were
able to create four separate objects, put
data by virtue of our call site binding,
put data on one of them and leave
the methods on the four separate ones.
And those methods are all able,
even in the circular relationship,
they're all able to virtually compose and
call each other.
And all the method calls, they all
just say, this dot in front of them.
Pick another one, right here,
this.addProjectsToList.
It's all one context, so
it doesn't matter where it comes from.
The delegation will take
care of that dispatch.
>> Kyle: I regularly get asked,
can you give me any kind of
scaled example of using a OLOO?
This is a scaled example.
I mean,
it's not a million line application.
But it's a couple hundred lines of code,
and
some decent amount of complexity to logic.
And it shows you that can, at scale,
use OLOO to delegate between your objects.
Now, as a word of caution,
just because that's what I've done here,
that does not necessarily mean
that I go and use OLOO everywhere.
As a matter of fact, I probably use the
module pattern like 90, 95% of the time.
Because most of the time, the module
pattern is more than sufficient.
But every once in a while,
I run into a scenario like this one where
I've got multiple different objects
that need to refer to each other.
They need to cooperate
to get the work done.
And as soon as I run into a problem
where I've got different objects that
would basically circularly call each
other, like these were, I think to myself,
instead of making circular references,
why don't I make a virtual composition?
Cuz that's what delegation is good at